Let's look at the command design pattern.
Command is a behavioral design pattern.
It's somewhat similar to observer, but different enough.
It qualifies as its own pattern.
Some of the benefits of using it include you can execute and undo functionality.
That's often when many teams bring it on to be able to have undo functionality in their UI.
But even without that paradigm, it's still tremendously successful in giving you the benefits of observer
with a bit more decoupling and abstraction compared to the observer pattern here, we don't need a reference
to the sender of the message.
Instead, both the sender and the observer know about some sort of a messaging system that sits between
them.
In later code, we'll see this called the command manager.
As long as those scopes can reach that command manager, it acts as the middleman between them and communication.
And like the observer, this allows for data exchange and communication, which is isolated from, well,
if one changes, does the other one necessarily need to change?
And you can certainly have multiple observers easily added and removed.
We'll see.
A parallel to the observer example we saw earlier here.
The three key parts are creating the command system, adding a listener and invoking it.
Now typically we'd be sending commands between two or more classes, but for brevity sake, I've included
in one class file here.
This way we can see a complete functional example quite quickly.
Now I'll mention a few more patterns, but I'll go a little bit more quickly.
The next couple that I'm going to show are things that we'll see in the spirit of how MVC architectures
are organized.
One you may already be familiar with is the singleton pattern.
Any time you want to have a system created exactly once inside your code and have global access to it,
that's a great place for the Singleton pattern.
Recent updates to Unity have some native solutions for this, but traditionally we've used community
based singleton mono behavior classes that help us access globally to a given mono behavior or some
other data type.
Secondly, the facade pattern helps us reduce the perceived complexity of a series of subsystems.
Let's say you have an input system and a rendering system and a physics system all created for your
game instead of your player.
Knowing the details of those systems, your player could interact with a facade that in turn calls those
individual systems or select subsections of what they can do.
Often, in developer parlance, we call this wrapping functionality.
So you might say I wrapped three systems into one class for the ease of use.
Mediator and proxy are two additional patterns.
They are indeed separate, but I may use the terms interchangeably in both mediation and proxy.
I mean, having some sort of middleman that stands between the communication, some of the benefits
here are that you can easily make changes to either of the two classes.
In that example, tweak the middleman and you don't have to massively refactor the system.
So it's a way to mitigate change.
We'll see some of these concepts in the architectures later.
So just with a brief overview of design patterns here, we see that they're reusable solutions that
help us solve the design challenges that come up often in our game development.
While Singleton may be one that you're most familiar with in Unity, as it's often discussed, the observer
pattern is probably the most useful for a beginner developer to elevate their game a little bit and
some of these other patterns I mentioned specifically because later when we look at architectures,
I'll be able to use those terms and you'll have a bit more familiarity.
In summary for this section, we've looked at some of the high level software design concepts.
We looked at design principles as philosophies to solve challenges, UML for a way to diagram and communicate
about our ideas.
And we looked at some design patterns, specifically observer and command, which will come back to
you later.
And they're a great way to decouple communication within your project.
Next, let's discuss architecture.
We'll look at some of the available solutions out there, the pros and cons of each of them, and narrow
down to some of the popular frameworks we can use specifically for unity.
Thanks.